OSSMDOC-550: Document new WasmPlugin API. (#45111)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-extensions-ref-wasmplugin.adoc

////
This module included in the following assemblies:
*service_mesh_/v2x/ossm-extensions.adoc
////
:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="ossm-wasm-ref-wasmplugin_{context}"]
= WasmPlugin API reference

The WasmPlugins API provides a mechanism to extend the functionality provided by the Istio proxy through WebAssembly filters.

You can deploy multiple WasmPlugins. The order of execution (as part of Envoy’s filter chain) is determined by the `phase` and `priority` settings, allowing the configuration of complex interactions between user-supplied WasmPlugins and Istio’s internal filters.

> In the following example, an authentication filter is deployed to the ingress-gateway that implements an OpenID flow and populates the `Authorization` header with a JSON Web Token (JWT) to be consumed by Istio authentication.

Reviewer: I found this sentence a bit hard to follow. Inverting it a little bit makes it easier for me. Something like:

In the following example, an authentication filter that implements an OpenID flow and populates the `Authorization` header with a JSON Web Token (JWT) to be consumed by Istio authentication is deployed to the ingress gateway. The WasmPlugin file lives in the proxy sidecar filesystem. Note the field `url`.

|spec.imagePullPolicy
|PullPolicy
|The pull behavior to be applied when fetching an OCI image. Only relevant when images are referenced by tag instead of SHA. Defaults to `IfNotPresent`, except when an OCI image is referenced in the `url` and the `latest` tag is used, in which case `Always` is the default, mirroring K8s behavior. Setting is ignored if `url` field is referencing a Wasm module directly
using `file://` or `http[s]://`.
|No

|spec.imagePullSecret
|string
|Credentials to use for OCI image pulling. The name of a secret in the same namespace as the `WasmPlugin` that contains a pull secret which is to be used to authenticate against the registry when pulling the image.
|No

|spec.phase
|PluginPhase
|Determines where in the filter chain this `WasmPlugin` is injected.
|No

|spec.priority
|`int64`
|Determines ordering of `WasmPlugins` in the same `phase`. When multiple `WasmPlugins` are applied to the same workload in the same `phase`, they will be applied by priority, in descending order. If `priority` is not set, or two `WasmPlugins` exist with the same
value, the ordering will be deterministically derived from name and namespace of the `WasmPlugins`. Defaults to `0`.
|No

> |spec.pluginName:

Reviewer: extra `:`

|string

> |The plugin name used in the Envoy configuration. Some .wasm modules might require this value to select the Wasm plugin to execute.

Reviewer: Suggestion: replace `.wasm` with `Wasm` or `WASM`.

|No

|spec.pluginConfig
|Struct
|The configuration that will be passed on to the plugin.
|No

|spec.pluginConfig.verificationKey
|string
|Public key that will be used to verify signatures of signed OCI images or Wasm modules. Must be supplied in PEM format.
|No
|===

> `WorkloadSelector` specifies the criteria used to determine if a policy can be applied to a proxy. The matching criteria includes the metadata associated with a proxy, workload instance information such as labels attached to the pod/VM, or any other information that the proxy provides to Istio during the initial handshake. If multiple conditions are specified, all conditions need to match in order for the workload instance to be selected. Currently, only label based selection mechanism is supported.

Reviewer: Replace `policy` with `filter`.

.WorkloadSelector
[options="header"]
[cols="a, a, a, a"]
|===
| Field | Type | Description | Required
|matchLabels
|map<string, string>
|One or more labels that indicate a specific set of pods/VMs on which a policy should be applied. The scope of label search is restricted to the configuration namespace in which the resource is present.
|Yes
|===

`PullPolicy` specifies the pull behavior to be applied when fetching an OCI image.

.PullPolicy
[options="header"]
[cols="a, a"]
|===

> | Field | Description

Reviewer: Replace `Field` with `Value`

> |UNSPECIFIED_POLICY

Reviewer: Replace this with `<empty>`

|Defaults to IfNotPresent, except for OCI images with tag latest, for which the default will be Always.

|IfNotPresent
|If an existing version of the image has been pulled before, that will be used. If no version of the image is present locally, we will pull the latest version.

|Always
|We will always pull the latest version of an image when applying this plugin.
|===

> `Struct` represents a structured data value, consisting of fields which map to dynamically typed values. In some languages, Struct might be supported by a native representation. For example, in scripting languages like JS a struct is represented as an object. The details of that representation are described together with the proto support for the language.

Reviewer: Replace `JS` with `JavaScript`

Reviewer: Remove the final sentence `The details of that representation are described together with the proto support for the language.`

> .Struct

Reviewer: This is missing a blank line I guess. The table got no title.

[options="header"]
[cols="a, a, a"]
|===
| Field | Type | Description
|fields
|map<string, Value>
|Map of dynamically typed values.
|===

`PluginPhase` specifies the phase in the filter chain where the plugin will be injected.

.PluginPhase
[options="header"]
[cols="a, a"]
|===
| Field | Description

> |UNSPECIFIED_PHASE

Reviewer: Replace this with `<empty>`

////
:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="ossm-wasm-ref-wasmplugin_{context}"]
= WasmPlugin API reference

The WasmPlugins API provides a mechanism to extend the functionality provided by the Istio proxy through WebAssembly filters.

You can deploy multiple WasmPlugins. The order of execution (as part of Envoy’s filter chain) is determined by the `phase` and `priority` settings, allowing the configuration of complex interactions between user-supplied WasmPlugins and Istio’s internal filters.

In the following example, an authentication filter that implements an OpenID flow and populates the Authorization header with a JSON Web Token (JWT) to be consumed by Istio authentication is deployed to the ingress gateway. The WasmPlugin file lives in the proxy sidecar filesystem. Note the field `url`.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: extensions.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: WasmPlugin
metadata:
  name: openid-connect
  namespace: istio-ingress
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      istio: ingressgateway
  url: file:///opt/filters/openid.wasm
  sha256: 1ef0c9a92b0420cf25f7fe5d481b231464bc88f486ca3b9c83ed5cc21d2f6210
  phase: AUTHN
  pluginConfig:
    openid_server: authn
    openid_realm: ingress
----

> In the following example, an authentication filter is deployed to the ingress-gateway that implements an OpenID flow and populates the `Authorization` header with an Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) image.

Reviewer: Oracle is wrong here. But I'd suggest to rewrite this with something like:

Below is the same example, but this time an OCI image is used instead of a file in the filesystem. Note the fields `url`, `imagePullPolicy` and `imagePullSecret`.

Author: Bah, I looked up OCI and then wrote down the wrong definition for the acronym.   =(  It's Open Container Initiative.

value, the ordering will be deterministically derived from name and namespace of the `WasmPlugins`. Defaults to `0`.
|No

|spec.pluginName
|string
|The plugin name used in the Envoy configuration. Some Wasm modules might require this value to select the Wasm plugin to execute.
|No

|spec.pluginConfig
|Struct
|The configuration that will be passed on to the plugin.
|No

|spec.pluginConfig.verificationKey
|string
|Public key that will be used to verify signatures of signed OCI images or Wasm modules. Must be supplied in PEM format.
|No
|===

`WorkloadSelector` specifies the criteria used to determine if a filter can be applied to a proxy. The matching criteria includes the metadata associated with a proxy, workload instance information such as labels attached to the pod/VM, or any other information that the proxy provides to Istio during the initial handshake. If multiple conditions are specified, all conditions need to match in order for the workload instance to be selected. Currently, only label based selection mechanism is supported.

.WorkloadSelector
[options="header"]
[cols="a, a, a, a"]
|===
| Field | Type | Description | Required
|matchLabels
|map<string, string>

> |One or more labels that indicate a specific set of pods/VMs on which a policy should be applied. The scope of label search is restricted to the configuration namespace in which the resource is present.

Author: Um, now two sentences end with prepositions?  Julie is confused.

> |One or more labels that indicate a specific set of pods/VMs on which a policy should be applied. The scope of label search is restricted to the configuration namespace in which the resource is present.

Reviewer 2: @JStickler my bad, I didn't explain that well. ISG says to _not_ avoid ending sentences in prepositions...so ending them in prepositions is preferred. I wish the ISG would've just said that 😅

| Value | Description
|<empty>
|Defaults to IfNotPresent, except for OCI images with tag latest, for which the default will be Always.

|IfNotPresent
|If an existing version of the image has been pulled before, that will be used. If no version of the image is present locally, we will pull the latest version.

|Always
|We will always pull the latest version of an image when applying this plugin.
|===

`Struct` represents a structured data value, consisting of fields which map to dynamically typed values. In some languages, Struct might be supported by a native representation. For example, in scripting languages like JavaScript a struct is represented as an object.

.Struct
[options="header"]
[cols="a, a, a"]
|===
| Field | Type | Description
|fields
|map<string, Value>
|Map of dynamically typed values.
|===

`PluginPhase` specifies the phase in the filter chain where the plugin will be injected.

.PluginPhase
[options="header"]
[cols="a, a"]
|===
| Field | Description
|<empty>
|Control plane decides where to insert the plugin. This will generally be at the end of the filter chain, right before the Router. Do not specify PluginPhase if the plugin is independent of others.

|AUTHN

> |Insert plugin before Istio authentication filters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Insert the plug-in before Istio authentication filters.
```

|AUTHZ

> |Insert plugin before Istio authorization filters and after Istio authentication filters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Insert the plug-in before Istio authorization filters and after Istio authentication filters.
```

|STATS

> |Insert plugin before Istio stats filters and after Istio authorization filters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Insert the plug-in before Istio stats filters and after Istio authorization filters.
```

|===

`Struct` represents a structured data value, consisting of fields which map to dynamically typed values. In some languages, Struct might be supported by a native representation. For example, in scripting languages like JS a struct is represented as an object. The details of that representation are described together with the proto support for the language.
.Struct
[options="header"]
[cols="a, a, a"]
|===
| Field | Type | Description
|fields
|map<string, Value>
|Map of dynamically typed values.
|===

`PluginPhase` specifies the phase in the filter chain where the plugin will be injected.

.PluginPhase
[options="header"]
[cols="a, a"]
|===
| Field | Description
|UNSPECIFIED_PHASE
|Control plane decides where to insert the plugin. This will generally be at the end of the filter chain, right before the Router. Do not specify PluginPhase if the plugin is independent of others.

|AUTHN
|Insert plugin before Istio authentication filters.

|AUTHZ
|Insert plugin before Istio authorization filters and after Istio authentication filters.

|STATS
|Insert plugin before Istio stats filters and after Istio authorization filters.
|===

> `Int64Value` specifies the wrapper message for int64. The JSON representation for Int64Value is a JSON string.

Reviewer 3: not sure what this is?
